It’s time for you to sell your 2006 Toyota Prius. You bought it new 7 years ago, and it has 95,000 miles on it. You’ve generally done a good job maintaining it. 
It’s been a good car, but since you just bought a new SUV, you don’t really need it any more. It has the standard features: air conditioning, power steering, AM/FM stereo with CD player, air bags, and 4-wheel ABS braking system. 
After consulting the Blue Book (see chart below), which said your car was worth between $8,000 and $9,000, you listed the car a few days ago with an asking price of $10,000 on Craig’s List. 
A number of people have emailed and texted you about the car. However, so far only two potential buyers have come to see it.

The first potential buyer offered you $7,000, but refused to pay any more. You weren’t ready to sell at that price. After all, that’s why you decided to sell the car on your own rather than trading it in at the dealer. 
You have their number and can call them if you change your mind.

You’re now dealing with the second potential buyer. This person took the car out on a test drive, and had it inspected by a mechanic. You know your car is in good condition. 
The second potential buyer is coming back from the test drive to negotiate with you.

During the second potential buyer’s brief test drive, you received 2–3 calls for the car (versus 2–3 calls over the previous few days)! 
You now think the Blue Book value may be understated because it’s not accounting for the trend towards higher gas prices. Given this trend, you’re wondering if it makes sense to keep your Prius as a second car. 
After all, your new SUV isn’t as fuel efficient as the Prius, and keeping insurance on it shouldn’t cost much, and could more than offset the fuel you’d save by driving the Prius on short trips.
On the one hand, you’d like the cash if you can sell your Prius at the right price, especially with the apparent increase in demand (and potentially price) for Prii given the expected increase in fuel costs. 
On the other hand, rising fuel costs and the opportunity to keep the Prius as an economical second car cause you to question if you really need to sell it. You may be able to save more money on gas by just keeping the Prius.