Your old car just died, so you need to buy a car. You’re focused on finding a used Toyota Prius. After scouring Craig’s List and AutoTrader.com, you found two “Prii” (yes, that’s the new plural for “Prius”) that seem promising.  
Both are 2006 base models with standard features (air conditioning, power steering, AM/FM stereo with CD player, air bags, and 4-wheel ABS braking system). That’s really all you want. 

The first Prius you saw was in good condition with 89,000 miles and doesn’t need any maintenance work. You negotiated the sellers down to a price of $10,000 but they refused to lower the price any more. 
You told them you’d keep looking, and they told you that if you changed your mind and were ready to pay $10,000, you should come back. 

The second Prius was advertised for $10,000 but you think you can get it for less. During a test-drive you took it to an honest and trusted mechanic. Your mechanic said the car is generally well maintained and in good shape. 
There are some small dings and scrapes on the paint, and marks on the seats, but that’s to be expected in a 6 year old car with 95,000 miles. 
The Blue Book (see chart) suggests the car may sell for between $8,000 and $9,000 for a private party. But you know this is only an estimate. Similar cars may sell for more or less than that.
You’re returning from your test drive and preparing to meet the seller of this second Prius. 

You’ve already secured financing. You need a car because taking the bus is inconvenient and time consuming, and you live too far from school and work to ride a bike. 
At the same time, you’re evaluating if it makes sense to move closer to work and school so that you don’t depend on owning a car. 
In fact, an opportunity has just come up for you to move to a new place that’s close enough to bike to work and school, without raising your rent.
This new place also is closer to more convenient bus routes that would allow you to use the bus for work, school and shopping when the weather is bad. 
Plus ZIPCarR , the new car sharing service, recently added vehicles near campus that you can use for day trips when you want a car, for less than the cost of owning.
On the one hand, you like the freedom that goes with owning your own car. So you’re still willing to buy the Prius if you can get a really good deal. 
On the other hand, rising gas prices, the opportunity to move to a more convenient place, and the potential for ZIPCarR as a lower cost option, cause you to question if you really need to buy this Prius.